elasticsearch/elasticsearch/docs/per-request-configuration.asciidoc, before:

[[per_request_configuration]]
== Per-request configuration

There are several configurations that can be set on a per-request basis, rather than at a connection- or client-level.
These are specified as part of the request associative array.

=== Ignoring exceptions
The library attempts to throw exceptions for common problems.  These exceptions match the HTTP response code provided
by Elasticsearch.  For example, attempting to GET a nonexistent document will throw a `MissingDocument404Exception`.

Exceptions are a useful and consistent way to deal with problems like missing documents, syntax errors, version
conflicts, etc.  But sometimes you want to deal with the response body rather than catch exceptions (often useful
in test suites).

If you need that behavior, you can configure an `ignore` parameter.  This should be configured in the `client` parameter
of the request array.  For example, this example will ignore the `MissingDocument404Exception`
exception and instead return the JSON provided by Elasticsearch.


[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index'  => 'test_missing',
    'type'   => 'test',
    'id'     => 1,
    'client' => [ 'ignore' => 404 ] <1>
];
echo $client->get($params);

> {"_index":"test_missing","_type":"test","_id":"1","found":false}
----
<1> This will ignore just the 404 missing exception

You can specify multiple HTTP status codes to ignore, by providing an array of values:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index'  => 'test_missing',
    'type'   => 'test',
    'client' => [ 'ignore' => [400, 404] ] <1>
];
echo $client->get($params);

> No handler found for uri [/test_missing/test/] and method [GET]

----
<1> `ignore` also accepts an array of exceptions to ignore. In this example,
the `BadRequest400Exception` is being ignored


It should be noted that the response is simply a string, which may or may not be encoded as JSON.  In the first example,
the response body was a complete JSON object which could be decoded.  In the second example, it was simply a string.

Since the client has no way of knowing what the exception response will contain, no attempts to decode it are taken.

=== Providing custom query parameters

Sometimes you need to provide custom query params, such as authentication tokens for a third-party plugin or proxy.
All query parameters are white-listed in Elasticsearch-php, which is to protect you from specifying a param which is
not accepted by Elasticsearch.

If you need custom parameters, you need to bypass this whitelisting mechanism.  To do so, add them to the `custom`
parameter as an array of values:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'parent' => 'abc',              // white-listed Elasticsearch parameter
    'client' => [
        'custom' => [
            'customToken' => 'abc', // user-defined, not white listed, not checked
            'otherToken' => 123
        ]
    ]
];
$exists = $client->exists($params);
----


=== Increasing the Verbosity of responses

By default, the client will only return the response body.  If you require more information (e.g. stats about the transfer,
headers, status codes, etc), you can tell the client to return a more verbose response.  This is enabled via the
`verbose` parameter in the client options.

Without verbosity, all you see is the response body:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1
];
$response = $client->get($params);
print_r($response);


Array
(
    [_index] => test
    [_type] => test
    [_id] => 1
    [_version] => 1
    [found] => 1
    [_source] => Array
        (
            [field] => value
        )

)
----

With verbosity turned on, you will see all of the transfer stats:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'verbose' => true
    ]
];
$response = $client->get($params);
print_r($response);


Array
(
    [transfer_stats] => Array
        (
            [url] => http://127.0.0.1:9200/test/test/1
            [content_type] => application/json; charset=UTF-8
            [http_code] => 200
            [header_size] => 86
            [request_size] => 51
            [filetime] => -1
            [ssl_verify_result] => 0
            [redirect_count] => 0
            [total_time] => 0.00289
            [namelookup_time] => 9.7E-5
            [connect_time] => 0.000265
            [pretransfer_time] => 0.000322
            [size_upload] => 0
            [size_download] => 96
            [speed_download] => 33217
            [speed_upload] => 0
            [download_content_length] => 96
            [upload_content_length] => -1
            [starttransfer_time] => 0.002796
            [redirect_time] => 0
            [redirect_url] =>
            [primary_ip] => 127.0.0.1
            [certinfo] => Array
                (
                )

            [primary_port] => 9200
            [local_ip] => 127.0.0.1
            [local_port] => 62971
        )

    [curl] => Array
        (
            [error] =>
            [errno] => 0
        )

    [effective_url] => http://127.0.0.1:9200/test/test/1
    [headers] => Array
        (
            [Content-Type] => Array
                (
                    [0] => application/json; charset=UTF-8
                )

            [Content-Length] => Array
                (
                    [0] => 96
                )

        )

    [status] => 200
    [reason] => OK
    [body] => Array
        (
            [_index] => test
            [_type] => test
            [_id] => 1
            [_version] => 1
            [found] => 1
            [_source] => Array
                (
                    [field] => value
                )
        )
)
----

=== Curl Timeouts

It is possible to configure per-request curl timeouts via the `timeout` and `connect_timeout` parameters.  These
control the client-side, curl timeouts.  The `connect_timeout` paramter controls how long curl should wait for the
"connect" phase to finish, while the `timeout` parameter controls how long curl should wait for the entire request
to finish.

If either timeout expires, curl will close the connection and return an error.  Both parameters should be specified
in seconds.

Note: client-side timeouts *do not* mean that Elasticsearch aborts the request.  Elasticsearch will continue executing
the request until it completes.  In the case of a slow query or bulk request, the operation will continue executing
"in the background", unknown to your client.  If your client kills connections rapidly with a timeout, only to immediately
execute another request, it is possible to swamp the server with many connections because there is no "back-pressure" on the
client.  In these situations, you will see the appropriate threadpool queue growing in size, and may start receiving
`EsRejectedExecutionException` exceptions from Elasticsearch when the queue finally reaches capacity.

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'timeout' => 10,        // ten second timeout
        'connect_timeout' => 10
    ]
];
$response = $client->get($params);
----

=== Enabling Future Mode

The client supports asynchronous, batch processing of requests.  This is enabled (if your HTTP handler supports it) on
a per-request basis via the `future` parameter in the client options:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'future' => 'lazy'
    ]
];
$future = $client->get($params);
$results = $future->wait();       // resolve the future
----

Future mode supports two options: `true` or `'lazy'`.  For more details about how asynchronous execution functions, and
how to work with the results, see the dedicated page on <<future_mode>>.

=== SSL Encryption

Normally, you will specify SSL configurations when you create the client (see
<<security>> for more details), since encryption typically
applies to all requests. However, it is possible to configure on a per-request basis too if you need that functionality.
For example, if you  need to use a self-signed cert on a specific request, you can specify it via the `verify` parameter
in the client options:


[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'verify' => 'path/to/cacert.pem'      //Use a self-signed certificate
    ]
];
$result = $client->get($params);
----

Commit message:

Updated with composer after fuerthwiki update

elasticsearch/elasticsearch/docs/per-request-configuration.asciidoc, after:

[[per_request_configuration]]
== Per-request configuration

There are several configurations that can be set on a per-request basis, rather than at a connection- or client-level.
These are specified as part of the request associative array.

=== Ignoring exceptions
The library attempts to throw exceptions for common problems.  These exceptions match the HTTP response code provided
by Elasticsearch.  For example, attempting to GET a nonexistent document will throw a `MissingDocument404Exception`.

Exceptions are a useful and consistent way to deal with problems like missing documents, syntax errors, version
conflicts, etc.  But sometimes you want to deal with the response body rather than catch exceptions (often useful
in test suites).

If you need that behavior, you can configure an `ignore` parameter.  This should be configured in the `client` parameter
of the request array.  For example, this example will ignore the `MissingDocument404Exception`
exception and instead return the JSON provided by Elasticsearch.


[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index'  => 'test_missing',
    'type'   => 'test',
    'id'     => 1,
    'client' => [ 'ignore' => 404 ] <1>
];
echo $client->get($params);

> {"_index":"test_missing","_type":"test","_id":"1","found":false}
----
<1> This will ignore just the 404 missing exception

You can specify multiple HTTP status codes to ignore, by providing an array of values:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index'  => 'test_missing',
    'type'   => 'test',
    'client' => [ 'ignore' => [400, 404] ] <1>
];
echo $client->get($params);

> No handler found for uri [/test_missing/test/] and method [GET]

----
<1> `ignore` also accepts an array of exceptions to ignore. In this example,
the `BadRequest400Exception` is being ignored


It should be noted that the response is simply a string, which may or may not be encoded as JSON.  In the first example,
the response body was a complete JSON object which could be decoded.  In the second example, it was simply a string.

Since the client has no way of knowing what the exception response will contain, no attempts to decode it are taken.

=== Providing custom query parameters

Sometimes you need to provide custom query params, such as authentication tokens for a third-party plugin or proxy.
All query parameters are white-listed in Elasticsearch-php, which is to protect you from specifying a param which is
not accepted by Elasticsearch.

If you need custom parameters, you need to bypass this whitelisting mechanism.  To do so, add them to the `custom`
parameter as an array of values:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'parent' => 'abc',              // white-listed Elasticsearch parameter
    'client' => [
        'custom' => [
            'customToken' => 'abc', // user-defined, not white listed, not checked
            'otherToken' => 123
        ]
    ]
];
$exists = $client->exists($params);
----


=== Increasing the Verbosity of responses

By default, the client will only return the response body.  If you require more information (e.g. stats about the transfer,
headers, status codes, etc), you can tell the client to return a more verbose response.  This is enabled via the
`verbose` parameter in the client options.

Without verbosity, all you see is the response body:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1
];
$response = $client->get($params);
print_r($response);


Array
(
    [_index] => test
    [_type] => test
    [_id] => 1
    [_version] => 1
    [found] => 1
    [_source] => Array
        (
            [field] => value
        )

)
----

With verbosity turned on, you will see all of the transfer stats:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'verbose' => true
    ]
];
$response = $client->get($params);
print_r($response);


Array
(
    [transfer_stats] => Array
        (
            [url] => http://127.0.0.1:9200/test/test/1
            [content_type] => application/json; charset=UTF-8
            [http_code] => 200
            [header_size] => 86
            [request_size] => 51
            [filetime] => -1
            [ssl_verify_result] => 0
            [redirect_count] => 0
            [total_time] => 0.00289
            [namelookup_time] => 9.7E-5
            [connect_time] => 0.000265
            [pretransfer_time] => 0.000322
            [size_upload] => 0
            [size_download] => 96
            [speed_download] => 33217
            [speed_upload] => 0
            [download_content_length] => 96
            [upload_content_length] => -1
            [starttransfer_time] => 0.002796
            [redirect_time] => 0
            [redirect_url] =>
            [primary_ip] => 127.0.0.1
            [certinfo] => Array
                (
                )

            [primary_port] => 9200
            [local_ip] => 127.0.0.1
            [local_port] => 62971
        )

    [curl] => Array
        (
            [error] =>
            [errno] => 0
        )

    [effective_url] => http://127.0.0.1:9200/test/test/1
    [headers] => Array
        (
            [Content-Type] => Array
                (
                    [0] => application/json; charset=UTF-8
                )

            [Content-Length] => Array
                (
                    [0] => 96
                )

        )

    [status] => 200
    [reason] => OK
    [body] => Array
        (
            [_index] => test
            [_type] => test
            [_id] => 1
            [_version] => 1
            [found] => 1
            [_source] => Array
                (
                    [field] => value
                )
        )
)
----

=== Request Identification

You can enrich your requests against Elasticsearch with an identifier string, that allows you to discover this identifier
in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.8/logging.html#deprecation-logging[deprecation logs], to support you with
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.8/index-modules-slowlog.html[identifying search slow log origin]
or to help with https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.8/tasks.html#_identifying_running_tasks[identifying running tasks].


[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();
$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'id'    => 1,
    'client' => [
        'opaqueId' => 'app17@dc06.eu_user1234', <1>
    ]
];
$response = $client->get($params);
----
<1> This will populate the `X-Opaque-Id` header with the value `app17@dc06.eu_user1234`

=== Curl Timeouts

It is possible to configure per-request curl timeouts via the `timeout` and `connect_timeout` parameters.  These
control the client-side, curl timeouts.  The `connect_timeout` paramter controls how long curl should wait for the
"connect" phase to finish, while the `timeout` parameter controls how long curl should wait for the entire request
to finish.

If either timeout expires, curl will close the connection and return an error.  Both parameters should be specified
in seconds.

Note: client-side timeouts *do not* mean that Elasticsearch aborts the request.  Elasticsearch will continue executing
the request until it completes.  In the case of a slow query or bulk request, the operation will continue executing
"in the background", unknown to your client.  If your client kills connections rapidly with a timeout, only to immediately
execute another request, it is possible to swamp the server with many connections because there is no "back-pressure" on the
client.  In these situations, you will see the appropriate threadpool queue growing in size, and may start receiving
`EsRejectedExecutionException` exceptions from Elasticsearch when the queue finally reaches capacity.

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'timeout' => 10,        // ten second timeout
        'connect_timeout' => 10
    ]
];
$response = $client->get($params);
----

=== Enabling Future Mode

The client supports asynchronous, batch processing of requests.  This is enabled (if your HTTP handler supports it) on
a per-request basis via the `future` parameter in the client options:

[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'future' => 'lazy'
    ]
];
$future = $client->get($params);
$results = $future->wait();       // resolve the future
----

Future mode supports two options: `true` or `'lazy'`.  For more details about how asynchronous execution functions, and
how to work with the results, see the dedicated page on <<future_mode>>.

=== SSL Encryption

Normally, you will specify SSL configurations when you create the client (see
<<security>> for more details), since encryption typically
applies to all requests. However, it is possible to configure on a per-request basis too if you need that functionality.
For example, if you  need to use a self-signed cert on a specific request, you can specify it via the `verify` parameter
in the client options:


[source,php]
----
$client = ClientBuilder::create()->build();

$params = [
    'index' => 'test',
    'type' => 'test',
    'id' => 1,
    'client' => [
        'verify' => 'path/to/cacert.pem'      //Use a self-signed certificate
    ]
];
$result = $client->get($params);
----
